(male announcer)
On the last episode
of  Ink Master...
15 masters and apprentices
were battling it out
to prove they're the best.
In the flash challenge,
the artists were
at each other's throats.
Just put all of our eggs
in the gold basket.
St. Marq has this pushy,
cocky way about him.
(St. Marq)
As a self-described tattoo god,
I think that I understand
what a Pharaoh might want their
sarcophagus to look like.
Try to not push
with your finger.
Brush with the brush.
I got to send home Ceeze.
He just took out my mentor.
This is so [bleep] wet.
I can't gold leaf
over any wet paint.
Matt doesn't listen.
He's not a good team player.
This stuff looked terrible.
Don't start putting blame
on me and Tyler.
You're being a dick.
No, I'm not being a dick.
You're pushing me into a corner.
Don't [bleep] bring this
out of me.
(announcer)
In the elimination tattoo,
St. Marq's
vicious canvas assignments...
You just handed me the keys
to this kingdom.
(announcer)
Enraged the artist.
I hate not having enough time
to, like, get something drawn
that I like.
There's no crying
in tattooing.
If you're not gonna be able to
battle against me, then go home.
So you're saying that you
would like to go head-to-head
- with me.
- Any day.
(Kito)
You're in the shark tank
right now.
You got to drop your nuts, man,
and just [bleep] everybody.
Whatever, man.
(St. Marq)
I want to see
all these competitors go home.
[smooches]
(announcer)
In the elimination,
Marisa, Kito,
and MV
were the bottom three.
(Dave)
Marisa...
The mouth is going
in one direction,
the nose is going
another direction.
This was an off day.
I've done better work,
and I haven't been
in the bottom yet.
(Dave)
Kito...
(Chris)
That background, it's a killer.
I'm gonna say
that's bull[bleep].
You made a tattoo uglier
than what it needed to be
by doing that background.
(Dave)
MV...
This does not look
like a lion body.
You put too much.
It does not look good.
MV, you do not have
what it takes to be Ink Master.
[dramatic music]
♪ ♪
(announcer)
14 artists remain,
but only one will earn
the $100,000 prize
and the title of  Ink Master.
[rock music]
♪ ♪
Man, they've been down there
for a while.
I don't think we're gonna see
Marisa come back up.
(St. Marq)
No, I don't think so either.
That was horrible.
(Chris B)
MV or Kito?
- Oh.
- Holy [bleep].
(all)
Oh!
Yeah, bitches!
Oh, my God.
He's back--
the big, black mack.
- That's right, my man.
- That's right, baby.
I'm a survivor.
You can put me on the bottom,
but I'm gonna still rise.
I'm getting out the mud, baby.
I'm just letting a mother[bleep]
know I'm tired of that [bleep].
- Cut that [bleep] out.
- Shut up.
That's why I'm out
for your ass.
You're stuck in your ways, baby.
I'm not.
You're right,
and I'm still kicking ass.
I think your experience
can also be a major downfall.
(Matt)
St. Marq has a huge ego.
We want to get him
out of the house
just so that we don't have
to live with him.
Easy target.
(Dave)
Welcome.
The tighter
this competition gets,
the harder you must work
to stand out,
because only one of you
will walk away
with $100,000,
a feature in  Inked magazine,
and the title of  Ink Master.
This week,
you're being tested
on ingenuity.
Ingenuity.
Ingenuity's a big player
in every tattoo.
Every little square inch
requires something
that's outside the box,
something that's creative
from our mind.
For this Flash Challenge,
ingenuity is critical,
because today
you must make the human form...
disappear.
Using black, white, and colored
UV body paints,
you must completely
transform your model
so that when the lights go out,
the human form
becomes
something else entirely.
(Big Ceeze)
I've been a professional
airbrush artist
for 25 years.
I'm pretty sure I'm going
to do well on this one.
While painting, you will each
have a small black light
to illuminate
the area you're working on,
however, you're full design
will not be revealed
until the end of the challenge.
This is all about illusion.
One more thing...
Today you'll be working
in teams of two.
One by one,
you will each pick a skull.
The number on the bottom
of the skull
will determine your team.
Katie,
let's start with you.
Number three.
- Number seven.
- Two.
Number three.
♪ I get paired up with Matt ♪
♪ That is so awesome ♪
- Yes!
- [bleep], yeah.
Katie and I
work really well together.
We know how each other think.
We're gonna knock this one
out of the park.
Dave.
Seven.
Two.
Again.
One.
Number one.
- Six.
Dope.
(Kito)
I'm a survivor,
and I'm gonna fight
through this.
I'm ready to go.
- Four.
Five.
I get paired with Marisa.
She is a three-year tattooist.
I'm gonna be taking the lead
on this one.
Team's are set.
Let's meet your models.
Oh, [bleep].
That's a lot of nakedness.
God damn it.
Oh.
They're buck naked.
This is insane.
Like, naked naked.
Like, no pasties,
no underwear.
I haven't seen a wiener
in a minute.
I'm stoked.
The winners
of the Flash Challenge
will have the power
to assign all human canvases
in the elimination tattoo
together.
You have four hours
to make the human form
disappear entirely,
and your time starts...
now.
(Oliver)
In this flash challenge,
making
the human figure disappear,
these artists are gonna have
to really show some ingenuity
to come up with the concept
that they can make an illusion.
Maybe we should
just concentrate on the octopus
and black out everything else.
You're not gonna really be able
to see your concept and vision
until it's finished
and you turn off the lights
and see how it comes out.
I don't know. It's up to you.
I'm totally cool with whatever.
I'm cool with shapes.
I'm cool with a flower.
All like that.
Bring your head down.
I'm posing the model first
and then painting her.
I'm trying to make her into
some sort of bird right now.
You know,
that's what I'm trying to--
Yeah, I see it.
And then that looks
like the top,
so it kind of looks like he's,
like, coming around there.
(Craig)
I'm back on the team
with the enemy again.
Big Ceeze sent Miami home.
I didn't take
the easy way out.
You look at my tattoo,
what I'm saying is that if--
You can't line up a cross
on someone's back,
you don't need
to be tattooing, Jack.
- If we need fine detail...
- Mm-hmm.
I can do all that.
It turns out Big Ceeze has
been airbrushing half his life.
Winning this skull pick
is way more important
than any kind of revenge.
Maybe I'll just do,
like, a moon.
- Oh, that'd be badass.
- You know what I mean?
Totally.
He's definitely going home,
just not today.
Plan of attack here?
Have you ever worked
with an airbrush before?
- No.
- Airbrushing since I was 12.
Pipe down, Marisa.
I was airbrushing when you were
still [bleep] in your diapers.
(St. Marq)
I'm gonna need that black
in a second.
I'm taking the lead
on this project.
She's gonna make
a pretty good assistant.
Two hours remaining, everybody.
Two more hours.
(Chris B)
I'm just gonna keep working
- my brush all the way through.
- Okay.
So I'm gonna do orange,
then white orange.
I'm clearly taking control
of this design.
I want the win.
Just follow along, Duffy.
Let's maybe do our blue rings
while you're doing the black.
Yep.
I need
to keep my momentum going.
I am on top right now,
and I'm just going
to keep knocking off players.
(Dave)
Five, four, three, two, one.
That's it.
Time's up.
No more painting.
I think we should
just start strategizing
on who we're passing out
the skulls to, dude.
You're the only one
with a partner here.
I'm not trying
to take care of anybody.
Time to critique your work.
First up is Kito and Tyler.
All right, guys,
hit the lights.
- Ooh.
- That's super bright.
(Tyler)
We were going for psychedelic
'cause it glows in the dark.
(Oliver)
The key here
would have been
to leave out parts
of the body.
There's glow in the dark
all over the entire human form,
so what we see is
a silhouette of the human form.
As far as the real ingenuity
part of this challenge,
you might have fallen
a little bit short.
Dave and Erik.
Hit the lights.
(all)
Ooh.
(Dave C)
We figured we'd take
a little risk
and try to shape the body first.
You really do lose the sense
of what the shape
of the body is.
(Chris)
I like the way
that you ended at the bottom
to where it stops thigh high,
then it disappears.
You actually
saved yourself a lot of work.
That also shows ingenuity
because you're
working smart, not hard.
I think you did a great job.
Duffy and Chris.
This is a really,
really creative approach,
and you've shown
a lot of ingenuity here.
We want to talk
about cool things
that are artistically inspiring
and move your competitors
to try to rise to your level.
You did an amazing job.
St. Marq and Marisa.
Great use of the body
with the movement
to show ingenuity.
It's a strong image.
Really using the negative
and having the falling petals
work to your advantage.
It gives a nice warm effect
because of the colors
that you chose.
Very cool, guys.
Thank you.
Matt and Katie.
(Marisa)
Ooh, oh, that's cool.
(Oliver)
The strength of this
is the concept.
I love the depth of field
that you have.
You used so much negative space
to really bring out
the positive.
When the lights went off,
the balloon on the back
of her head
completely eliminated
the human form.
It took me to a scenery,
and that really shows ingenuity.
Kruseman and Earl.
(Oliver)
I don't really see
the human body
once the light goes out,
but I also don't see any kind
of real artistic creativity.
Obviously, this is gonna tie
into a tattoo challenge.
We're going
to be judging ingenuity,
and if you're not hungry
to win this challenge,
I don't know
how it's going to help you out
in this competition.
Craig and Big Ceeze.
Let's hit the lights.
Get out of town!
(Oliver)
[bleep] performance
theater here.
You created a root base
with his legs--
the trunk, the limb,
a real moving,
functioning snake.
It's very commendable, man.
I don't think they expected this
coming from us.
I think it just nailed us
this win.
All right, guys.
Today we're testing ingenuity.
Give me the top three
of the day.
Matt and Katie--
the depth of field
with all that negative space
and those simple,
bright hot-air balloons.
I loved that.
Chris and Duffy I thought
did a great job
with the octopus.
(Oliver)
And just adding a little bit
of movement,
I feel like the octopus
really came to life.
Craig and Big Ceeze, who did
the tree trunk with the snake,
were very creative.
It took a lot of thought,
a lot of ingenuity,
and he starts moving around,
and it was
borderline ingenious.
I think we have a decision.
- Yeah.
- Let's let 'em know.
Today you had
to use ingenuity
to create
the ultimate optical illusion.
The judges have decided
the winners
of today's flash challenge
are...
Craig and Big Ceeze.
The technical application
was so smooth.
The details were so nice.
The contrast and the depth
you were able to achieve
- was over the top.
- Thank you.
Craig and I freakin' knocked
this one out of the park.
Can't wait
to pass out those skulls.
Big Ceeze and Craig,
together, you'll have the power
to assign all human canvases
for the elimination tattoo.
(Craig)
I'm not playing around.
I got a [bleep] list
of everybody's name on it.
This group needs to be broken in
on how we play this game.
Head back to the loft
and prepare
for the next elimination tattoo.
I'm here
to change the whole game.
- I want to hear them get hit.
- I can't wait.
Let's just send a message.
What the [bleep] is going on?
This girl is passed out.
Can I get medical, please?
(man)
Hello?
I'm not really looking out
for anyone,
so I'm here
to change the whole game.
There's a lot of people
thinking they're gonna skate
- through this whole thing.
- Absolutely.
I want to hear them get hit,
try to defend themselves,
and get hit even harder.
I'm trying to win.
I'm going in with a mission.
I'm taking names,
taking numbers,
and I'm gonna show people
how this game is played.
The strategy is to look
at people's strengths
and weaknesses
to take out someone.
That's exactly
what I want to do.
And we got Chris
for color realism.
- Put him with St. Marq.
- That cocky fool.
I want to see that guy freakin'
be knocked down a level.
Just send a message
as soon as we walk down there.
I can't wait.
Welcome
to the elimination tattoo.
You came in
as master and apprentices,
but remember,
only one of you will walk away
with $100,000,
a feature in  Inked magazine,
and the title of Ink Master.
This week
we're testing ingenuity.
Ingenuity in a tattoo
is using a design
in a creative way
to work well on the body
and be visually appealing.
Today you must find
a unique way
to use your canvas's anatomy
to make your tattoo
come to life.
- What?
- What does that mean?
From armpits to belly buttons
to a fist or a foot,
you must work
with the shape and movement
of that body part
to create an illusion.
Seriously?
Ingenuity is really important
to create this illusion
because you need that body part
to be a part of your tattoo.
It takes tattooing
to a whole nother level.
In this elimination tattoo,
you will be tattooing
head-to-head
against one other artist.
One artist will win
and one will lose.
Lose, and this could be
your last day
in this competition.
- [exhales sharply]
- Let's meet your canvases.
Craig and Big Ceeze,
you won the flash challenge.
You now have the power
to assign all human canvases.
Together,
by assigning the skulls,
you're also determining
who tattoos head-to-head,
so choose carefully.
Today's the perfect day
to have skull pick.
What do you want to get?
Grim Reaper with his hand
extended on my forearm.
My hand is gonna be his hand.
We got to turn their bodies
into an interactive tattoo?
I want to get a laughing Buddha
on my belly.
Using my belly button
as the Buddha's belly button.
(Craig)
Nobody is getting anything
that they want to do here
but me.
Everybody else
is gonna struggle today.
Can I get a rainforest
incorporating my butt crack?
A rainforest
coming out of your butt crack?
- [bleep]
- All right.
Incorporating my butt crack
as her cleavage.
- What?
- Okay.
A pinup girl
on the back of my neck...
- and have my hair as her hair.
- That's ridiculous.
I want to get a mermaid
on the left side of my head.
- A dragon mouth.
- In your armpit?
- Yeah.
- Oof, armpit.
- A wolf mouth in my armpit.
- There's some [bleep].
The armpit
is a very sensitive area,
and people don't sit very well,
so whoever gets armpits,
they're gonna have a tough time.
They have no idea what's coming.
Yeah.
Ultimately,
our goal is put everyone
out of their comfort zone.
We are sneaky.
This is chess, not checkers.
(Dave)
Canvases, one by one,
please read the artist's name
on the bottom of your skull.
(man)
Kito.
Dave.
Head-to-head.
Matt.
Big Ceeze.
Marisa.
Which one was that?
Please, God,
don't let it be me.
- Earl.
- [sighs]
[bleep].
Craig.
Katie.
[imitates gunshot]
I see you, Craig.
- Rain forest?
- In his butt crack.
Everybody's sweating
over here.
St. Marq.
- [giggles]
- I got this.
I wished for it.
Medusa,
butt crack cleavage.
Chris.
St. Marq versus Chris.
One of them got to lose.
Smart.
Thank you, Craig.
Erik.
Tyler.
[bleep], yeah.
- Kruseman.
- Oh.
She wants a pinup
on the back of her neck,
and she wants her hair
to be the pinup's hair.
How ridiculous
is that gonna look?
Duffy.
I'm going up against my master
in this competition.
I definitely got the [bleep] end
of the skull pick.
This is
gonna be crazy.
(Dave)
Remember, artists,
after the elimination tattoo,
the human canvas jury
will vote on the tattoo
that they think is the worst
and put one artist
up for elimination.
You'll have six hours
to use ingenuity
to fully transform
your canvases body part.
Based on your work,
one of you will close shop.
- [sighs]
- Good luck.
How's it going, buddy?
In this elimination tattoo,
all the artists have
to creatively use
their canvases body part
to make a design that does
more than just sit on the skin.
When I first started hearing
everybody's ideas...
- You were frightened.
- Oh, I was petrified.
[laughs]
We want to have our minds blown
with some creative ingenuity.
Perfect.
(Oliver)
We want to see these artists
show us that they're not
just tracers.
Armpits are not the easiest
place to get tattooed--
It's pretty sensitive, so this
is going to be a little intense.
Are you open
to artist interpretation.
I'd like to stick
to the wolf, really.
I got dished
the [bleep] canvas possible.
It's a wolf in the armpit,
and this is not going
to translate well.
- It's gonna hurt.
- I know.
This is going to be
my second tattoo.
You are definitely going
to earn this tattoo.
I'm hating life.
I really don't want
to do this tattoo.
It sucks.
You were saying
what you wanted,
and a lot of guys
were shaking their heads,
and I had
some really clear ideas.
Mm-hmm.
(woman)
You could do it somehow, like,
that it looks kind of like me,
but as Medusa.
- You want to try that?
- Yes!
St. Marq definitely is
at a disadvantage on this one.
Ah!
I love you.
I'm gonna say that straight up.
Luckily, Craig just fell
right into my strategy.
You put me up
against St. Marq.
He does black and gray.
You have me a full color piece.
And you just knocked St. Marq
out by doing that.
[bleep].
What the [bleep] is going on?
This girl is passed out.
Can I get medical, please?
Hello?
(Chris B)
I'm screwed right now.
My canvas is passed out
in my chair.
Hello?
[bleep].
Hello? Hi.
Hi.
You know you were
just passed out, right?
I was sleeping.
I think you were doing
a little bit more than sleeping.
Probably not the best idea
for you to get tattooed today.
It's my judgment call.
I can't have you stay here.
What the heck am I supposed
to do--tattoo my own butt crack?
Are you serious?
- Hey, Chris, let's have a chat.
- Yeah.
Obviously,
this isn't your fault.
In order to move on
in this competition,
you're gonna have to tattoo
the same exact body part.
We have arrangements
to get another canvas in here.
Once your canvas arrives,
you'll have three hours
of design time
and six hours to tattoo.
- I'll take that. Thank you.
- All right, buddy, good luck.
In this competition,
you must tattoo.
So now Chris is gonna have
to rethink his entire concept
for somebody else
that's coming in,
and this could definitely
throw someone off their game.
Artists, you have six hours
to create an illusion.
And your time begins now.
All right, let's do it.
I'm gonna go ahead
and put the stencil on you.
(Chris)
In order to achieve an optical
illusion tattoo properly,
you're going to really have
to know the anatomy
and dynamics of the image
that you're tattooing
and the body part
that you're placing it on.
Dude, that's perfect
on the first try.
If you're not a genius
doing these tattoos,
you will not succeed.
Oh. Ah.
I really do not like
the shell.
There's not much elements
besides the scales on her face
that are going to make her look
like a mermaid.
I just know my pain tolerance,
and I just want you to be able
to have a finished piece.
Whether I do a hand
or a hand with a shell in it,
it's gonna be
about the same amount of time.
I have to show ingenuity
with this tattoo.
If I start taking details out,
it might make no sense.
I'm going head-to-head
with my mentor, Kruseman.
I really, really just need
to win an elimination challenge.
- Hi, guys.
- Hey, buddy.
- How you doing?
- My final tattoo...
before I go home-skie.
I feel like I can't win
for nothing, man.
I'm just getting screwed
left and right.
I have too much integrity
to give this lady
a headless pinup
on the back of her head.
I'm not gonna do it.
Sometimes
you can't be bought.
This is the type of challenge
that's making me want
to throw in the towel.
- Hi.
- Hi. Brandi.
I'm Chris.
So, originally,
I had drawn up a Medusa, right?
- For the other girl.
- Right.
Kind of tweaked it up
to make it work.
How do you feel
about that same concept?
Not my style.
I'm thinking water goddess,
like, mermaid...
Okay, got ya.
All right.
(Chris B)
I just drew for three hours
for the Medusa.
I'm meeting my new canvas,
and she wants a water goddess
or a mermaid.
Another three hours
of drawing.
My head's all screwed up.
I'm burnt. I'm spent.
[moaning]
I'm here for one thing.
So this time
I'm not screwing around.
[whimpers]
Craig is here to play the game
against other strong artists,
and he chose to go head-to-head
with me.
I definitely feel the heat
'cause you're a rad tattooer.
I wasn't going for anybody easy.
You've been doing it.
Thank you.
Huge mistake going up
against me.
I'm tattooing a bold, bright,
traditional tattoo
on this guy's knee ditch
to knock Craig out.
Oh, yeah.
Three hours remaining.
Three more hours.
Oh, my God.
So that would be, like,
the general idea.
- I'm gonna start some seashell.
- Okay, awesome.
Finally got
the water goddess drawn.
We're ready to tattoo.
Mentally prepared
for six hours, okay?
- The goal is to finish it.
- That's it.
Chris doesn't
get discouraged easily.
If anything, he's gonna try
harder to beat St. Marq out,
and hopefully
he just kicks his ass.
(St. Marq)
We're doing some ass grass.
We're gonna
leave the grass ass colored.
I am an artist with vision.
It's gonna be hard
to stack up against my tattoo.
Chris is gonna have
to work double time
to try to even get close.
Final hour of tattooing.
[whimpers]
Ow!
Ow, ow, ow, ow, ow.
Hold on, hold on,
hold on, please.
Hold on, hold on.
My canvas is being a sissy.
He's making me stop
every two seconds.
Ow!
Hold on.
Hold on again.
I'm going
into freak-out mode.
I suffer
from bipolar disorder,
and sometimes my emotions
get in the way.
I'm [bleep] beyond furious
at this point.
I just want
to finish the tattoo.
I know.
[whimpers]
If he doesn't make it
through this...
Ah-ha-ha.
He's basically
sending me home.
[moans]
Towards the end
is the worst part.
You made it this far.
You're doing really good.
All I can do is try to coach her
down a little bit
to keep her
from tapping out on me.
- Yeah.
- Just got to power through.
Bear with me.
(Marisa)
I really need to win
against Earl.
That will prove
that I deserve to be here.
[canvases moaning]
Ay.
Ay, ay, ay, ay.
Five, four, three...
two, one.
That's it. Machines down.
Time is up.
No more ink.
Looks amazing.
I love it.
- I love it.
- Sweet.
Kruseman might just go
to the bottom with this tattoo.
He did not try to use her hair
for the illusion at all.
I expected way more
out of him.
(woman)
Have fun.
You think I'm rattled
because of this?
I'm a Marine.
I'm gonna adapt.
I'm gonna overcome this one.
I'm gonna give her
a fantastic tattoo.
St. Marq,
you have nothing on me,
and I'm gonna beat you
in this challenge.
- Got to hang with me, okay?
- I'm trying.
He don't even want
to [bleep] be here.
Where the [bleep] do you get
I want to be out of here?
So you can't [bleep]
say one thing!
This thing is ugly, bro.
Are you kidding me?
It's hard to tell
what the [bleep] going on.
Make it easier on everybody
and throw in the towel.
Hands down, I don't think
I met the challenge.
(Marisa)
They said today, like,
follow the challenge.
It's either look like an idiot
or do a cool tattoo.
Your canvas signed up
for this [bleep].
I had a choice to make.
I could either do a pinup girl
with half of her head cut off,
or I could do
a [bleep] sick tattoo
on the back of her neck
and take a chance on going home.
(St. Marq)
Well, that could be
really dangerous.
They'd be fools
for sending me home,
because I'm a [bleep] solid
tattooer in this competition.
Today you had to use ingenuity
to come up with a clever way
to transform
your canvas's body part.
Each of you
tattooed head-to-head
with another artist.
One of you will win,
and one of you will lose.
Craig.
You went head-to-head
with Katie.
In the bends of the knee,
the skin is very soft.
It's very delicate.
I think you did a great job
applying this tattoo.
The way it's placed on here
when her leg's straight--
It looks great
when her leg's bent.
It looks great.
It's just a really smooth,
slick tattoo.
Katie.
Overall, I think
you did hit the challenge.
The only design element
that I don't really love
is the shape of the tongue.
It looks like these
could be cherries,
but the shading, the color,
it's all strong.
It's a fun, cool tattoo.
All right, guys,
between Craig and Katie,
who took this one?
Man, Craig's
is so slick and smooth.
- I'm going with Craig.
Craig got this one.
The judges have decided
the winner
of this head-to-head battle
is Craig.
St. Marq.
You went head-to-head
with Chris.
So he initially
wanted a rain forest,
and I'm just really glad
that you went this way,
as opposed to the jungle
with trees.
I felt fortunate,
since we're judging ingenuity,
that I got
to think on my feet.
Very smooth.
Has a nice look to it.
Definitely gives
an inference of depth,
but this is
right along the lines
of almost every other tattoo
we've seen you do.
We get it--
you're great at this smooth,
black-and-gray,
no-outline thing.
That one trick isn't going
to take you to the end.
Chris.
I really like this tattoo.
I think that it's really dynamic
and beautiful.
Your palette is excellent.
It absolutely hits
the challenge,
in terms of making this girl's
ass crack into the cleavage
of this sea goddess.
It is a solid, strong,
badass tattoo.
I mean, I'm a sucker
for a pretty lady,
and I love all the detail.
I think I'll lean to Chris.
I'm leaning
with Chris as well.
I'm going with Chris.
The winner of this head-to-head
battle is Chris.
Dave.
You went head-to-head
with Kito.
Out of the people that had
to attach a foot or a hand
onto a foreshortened image,
you're the one
that took the right approach.
This angle of the arm
has a smooth transition out
from way back
leaning forward to the fist.
It's a nice, smooth,
soft ending,
and I think you really pulled
the tattoo off.
Kito.
This is so nice
and open and airy.
It breathes.
It's readable.
But you lost it
in the art.
The idea is that
the hand that's attached to here
is coming at you.
Just a straight-on,
frontal view of the Reaper
doesn't work
in this challenge.
Without foreshortening,
it makes no sense
that this hand is that big.
It's crazy.
Dave definitely
showed ingenuity,
and the perspective on this
really, really works well.
Dave.
Winner of the head-to-head
challenge is Dave.
Erik.
You went head-to-head
with Tyler.
I'm not seeing
the perspective here,
other than it looks like
she might have an enormous foot.
Tried to do
something really dynamic
with a lot of foreshortening.
Really no foreshortening
throughout.
From that knee down,
it just goes...
Wah!
To the foot.
Didn't work out.
Tyler.
I can say a lot of nice things
about how clean your tattoo is,
but you have absolutely
zero perspective
or foreshortening
in this design.
There's no distance,
no depth.
It's just down to the leg,
and then at the ankle,
you just go...
Whoop!
Foot.
Does it create the illusion?
Not in the slightest.
I will say
that Tyler's is super clean.
The color's great.
The details are great.
- I would go with Tyler.
- Tyler.
The winner of this
head-to-head battle is Tyler.
Big Ceeze.
You went head-to-head
with Matt.
You have done
a really great job
of making this belly button
the Buddha's belly button.
The shading in this--
so much better
than anything I've seen
from you, and I'm happy for you.
I'm glad
to see you come back.
Matt.
I have more problems
with the drawing
than anything else.
The toes and the one hand
holding the bowl
look really remedial.
I did purposely
kind of dumb my drawing down,
just knowing that I was dealing
with darker skin.
But the drawing itself
has nothing to do
with the color skin you get.
Don't let the color of skin
throw off your art.
Let's talk about a win here.
Big Ceeze definitely
did something
that was aesthetically
more pleasing.
I'm picking Ceeze.
Yeah, I have to agree.
I'm going with Big Ceeze.
Ceeze.
The winner of this head-to-head
battle is Big Ceeze.
Marisa.
You went head-to-head
with Earl.
For this idea,
fitting in the armpit,
I do commend you
on getting a lot
of these lines in there
really clean
in this very tender part
of the body.
You've taken some pretty
heavy beatings up here...
Yeah.
And this is not one
of those days.
Oddly enough,
this is probably
my favorite tattoo
I've seen you do.
Earl.
This thing is ugly, bro.
This was
a living nightmare.
By ten minutes in,
he was crying.
This tattoo is riddled
with weird choices.
On the side of the nose,
there's those two divots
that almost look
like that may be
where his eyes would be.
That's literally
off the picture.
Just because your reference
was a real photo
doesn't mean
that the tattoo is real looking.
You made this look
like his eyes
are on his upper lip.
It's crazy.
(Dave)
Between Marisa and Earl...
It's obviously Marisa.
I got to go
with Marisa, too.
Marisa.
Winner of the head-to-head
challenge is Marisa.
Duffy.
You went head-to-head
with Kruseman.
As far as placement goes,
you certainly used her hairline
to create hair,
and you hit the challenge there.
I don't like this one.
Her eyes are incredibly
far apart.
That line that you put
off of the lip
really pushes her out
to have a duck bill.
This is definitely
my least favorite tattoo
I've seen you do.
Kruseman.
What was
your plan of attack here?
She wanted a pinup girl
on the back of her neck
with her hair
becoming the pinup girl's hair,
and I just think
that's a ridiculous idea.
I abandoned ship.
I wish
I would've got a Buddha
that I could just line up
the belly button or--
This is easy. To have the back
of a neck, no problem.
- And I definitely tried.
- I don't think you did.
Abandon the challenge,
then I expect everything else
of the tattoo
to be perfect,
and there's a lot of flaws
in the tattoo.
The black shading
from underneath her chin
where the earring is--
kind of weird.
The little outline of her lip
is a little bit wonky.
Could it have been cleaner?
Absolutely.
Tattooed it
on the back of her neck.
If you're playing it, play it,
or make it easier on everybody
and throw in the towel.
Out of respect
for everybody standing here
who did the challenge,
you got to give it to Duffy.
I agree with that.
Winner of the head-to-head
challenge is Duffy.
The human canvas jury
is deliberating right now.
Their vote will put one artist
up for elimination,
and the canvas will be here
to tell us why.
Head back to the loft,
and we'll call you back
when we have a decision.
Even though Kruseman
didn't meet the challenge,
he pulled off a tattoo
that was better
than both
of you guy's tattoos.
I'm gonna slaughter anybody
if I get called down there.
- Coming right back up.
- I get it--your the [bleep].
He don't even want
to [bleep] be here.
I didn't say I didn't want
to be here.
Your attitude is [bleep].
Where the [bleep] do you get
I want to be out of here?
So you can't [bleep]
say one thing!
You're gonna push buttons.
'Cause you probably
shouldn't [bleep] do that.
Today we're testing ingenuity
with some pretty
interesting tattoos.
I think
we saw some good ideas.
We saw some examples
that weren't that great.
I definitely want
to bring Kruseman to the bottom,
based on the quality
of his tattoo alone--
how off-centered the collar
of her shirt is compared
to where her neck comes out.
He got rattled by the pressure,
and he cracked.
I'd love to see Earl down here.
It looks terrible.
It's definitely
the least attractive of the day.
I mean, Erik's tattoo is
in the bottom for me.
I think he made
some very weird choices,
like that weird shading loosely
on that girl's foot.
If this girl
just puts a sock on,
she's got
a pretty nice tattoo.
Ugh.
It's really going
to be interesting
to see who
the human canvas jury voted for,
because their vote is going
to bring someone to the bottom.
We're here to determine who had
the worst tattoo of the day.
That is my tattoo,
and my artist was Katie.
(man)
That definitely does not look
like a tongue.
It looks like you got
really swollen tonsils.
(man)
The gold around the gums
looks like gingivitis.
- What is that?
[laughter]
It's a cartoonish tattoo.
You know, I totally dig it.
That's my tattoo.
My artist was Earl.
But it has a deformed head.
I don't know if those are eyes
or those are part of the fur.
Mine is definitely
not the worst of the day.
That's my tattoo.
My artist was Kruseman.
(man)
It doesn't look at all
like here hair is going
to go up to your hair.
He was trying to incorporate it,
but also give me a nice tattoo.
This is a challenge,
and you're supposed to do
what you got to do.
I think he did
an awesome job.
I'm definitely convinced
that I'm going down.
The judges want to see...
Earl...
Erik...
Kruseman...
and Katie.
See y'all downstairs.
I want to see
all y'all come back.
(Big Ceeze)
Give 'em hell.
Today you had to use ingenuity
to create an illusion
on your canvas's skin.
It's time to find out
who the human canvas jury
determined had the worst tattoo
of the day.
[scoffs]
Katie, you're here
because the human canvas jury
determined that you had
the worse tattoo of the day.
I'm proud of the tattoo.
I feel like it's really clean.
I stand by it, for sure.
They didn't like the tongue,
and they didn't like
the lack of detail.
I can kind of agree
on the tongue.
It's just the style, man.
Some people aren't into
traditional kind of imagery,
so I think if the others
didn't like it,
[bleep] what you heard.
(Dave)
All right, Danny.
Thank you.
Katie, obviously,
you've got to please the public.
So, anytime you do something
that's kind of hard
to understand,
you run that risk.
You could've had
a lot cooler tongue in there
and even made this thing
even better.
Lesson learned.
Kruseman.
My concern for your future
is if this is
how you're going to do it,
you're not gonna make it.
I just failed.
But did you fail,
or did you not do it?
Or did you give up?
That's what we're having
a hard time--
I don't think
that I necessarily gave up.
There's going to be some
other left-of-center challenges
that you may think
aren't great ideas.
I mean, Erik, were you dying
to do a ballerina
that turns
into a huge foot today?
No, and I don't think
I should be down here for this.
Erik, the stylistic choice
to put all that black
on that girl's foot
just is not flattering.
It's stronger
than the other three, by far.
How can you say that
that tattoo looks better
than the rest of the three?
I mean it looks Britney Spears
after she shaved her head off.
Man, if you want to go there,
how many mistakes
have you made now?
And you immediately
throw yourself under the bus.
In tattoos
or flash challenges?
Both.
It's my first time
down here too.
This was an awkward challenge
to me.
At least I was hanging it
out there and going for it.
Earl.
This is, by far,
the most unattractive tattoo
of the day.
(Earl)
It's as detailed
as I could get it
as it was in his armpit.
- You say it's detailed...
- It's as detailed as I can get.
But it's hard to tell
what the [bleep] is going on.
It's as detailed
as I can get.
So those details
are a failed attempt at details.
(Chris)
The face is disjointed.
(Earl)
I get it.
You look at this, and it's like,
"Would you want this on you?"
No, no, no, no, no.
I get it.
In my situation, I did the best
I could with what I was given.
I at least did the challenge.
I'm here
to play a game and fight.
Are you suggesting that Kruseman
didn't do the challenge?
He openly admitted
he didn't do the challenge.
Well, this is a tricky one.
Let's debate this.
In my opinion,
Katie's safe.
Erik's safe.
Agreed.
My very first inclination
was to send Kruseman home.
I don't want to keep somebody
in the competition
who's not gonna fight.
For me, this is splitting hairs,
and I'm looking at talent.
Judging as the rules
of the game.
Next week, it's like,
"We're all going
to do head tattoos.
Eh, I want to do it
on the chest."
At this point,
I got to vote for Kruseman.
And no disrespect, man,
'cause I [bleep] love your work.
I'll be damned if I'm sending
home a good tattooer,
and it's not that Earl's
not a good tattooer,
but he hasn't produced
the quality that Kruseman has.
So what's your vote?
Earl goes home.
I'm gonna vote for Earl.
The judges have decided.
Earl, you do not
have what it takes
to be Ink Master.
It's my fault, man.
I couldn't--
I couldn't get it
in the game, man.
That's this room, man.
This room does it
to the best of 'em.
Please pack your machines
and close shop.
Being in an element
that you're not used to,
it really does
throw you off kilter.
I wish I could have shown
more of what I do.
This [bleep] sucks.
I'm still out the game,
and I'm still out $100,000.
(announcer)
Still to come this season
on  Ink Master...
The cream rises to the top.
We're meeting on the battlefield
in the middle of the fight.
I see no one in my way.
Grab your popcorn.
I am ready
to tear this [bleep] place up.
- [whimpering]
- There you go, just breathe.
(Chris B)
Relax, relax.
You have to. You have to.
You guys doing
an exorcism over there?
(Kruseman)
Did you forget
that this lady is a human being?
You tap out,
one of us goes home.
She's [bleep] dying right now
in the chair.
Do you think
he really has your back?
He's had my back
the whole [bleep] time.
It looks
like the fish is peeing.
This bitch is crazy.
I can't figure out
how to please her.
It makes me sick
to my [bleep] stomach.
Keep running
your [bleep] mouth.
Now that people know
we're together,
they're gonna try
to put us against each other.
I'm trying not
to lose my mind right now.
Nobody is tattooing smart.
It was the worst experience
I ever had.
There's no redeeming qualities
to this tattoo whatsoever.
We're in a [bleep]
pissing contest.
You should get the [bleep]
out of here. Kick rocks.
I think I did put
my balls out there.
That's a big tattoo.
But it's big
with no purpose.